---
layout: post
title: Latex
categories:
- linux
comments: true
---

## [What do \makeatletter and \makeatother do?](https://tex.stackexchange.com/a/8353)

All characters in TeX are assigned a "category code" or catcode. There are 16 catcodes in all, some containing just a single character, e.g. 
`\` is (normally) catcode 0, 
`{`, catcode 1 etc. 
Normal characters are catcode 11; 
this category normally comprises all of the letter characters. 
`@` symbol is given the catcode of 12, which means it is not treated as a normal letter. The effects of this are that `@` cannot normally be used in user document files as part of a multicharacter macro name. (All other non-letter characters are also forbidden in macro names: for example, `\foo123`, and `\foo?!` are not valid macro names.)

In LaTeX class and package files, however, `@` is treated as a normal letter (catcode 11) and this allows package writers to make macro-names with `@`. The advantage of this is that such macro names are automatically protected from regular users: since they cannot use `@` as a normal letter, there is no accidental way for a user to override or change a macro that is part of the internal workings of a package.

However, it is sometimes necessary in user documents to have access to such package-internal macros, and so the commands `\makeatletter` and `\makeatother` change the catcode of `@` from 12 to 11 and 11 to 12, respectively.

In practical terms, if you need to modify a package internal macro that contains the `@` symbol in its name, you will need to surround your modifications by these commands

```latex
\makeatletter % changes the catcode of @ to 11
<your changes here>
\makeatother % changes the catcode of @ back to 12
```

The commands should not be used within `.sty` and `.cls` files themselves as they may conflict with the catcode changes that occurs when package and class files are loaded. For more information on this see [Is it really bad to use \makeatletter and \makeatother in a package or class file?](https://tex.stackexchange.com/a/62586).


## [How could I check what font size is in pt for \section, \subsection, and \subsubsection?](https://tex.stackexchange.com/a/125174)

```latex
\documentclass{book}

\makeatletter
\newcommand\thefontsize{The current font size is: \f@size pt}
\makeatother

\begin{document}
\chapter{\thefontsize}
\section{\thefontsize}
\subsection{\thefontsize}
\subsubsection{\thefontsize}
\end{document}
```